[Doc] Ajout d'une section 'How to make and test a change in my context' (#896)
AxaGuilDEv/react-toolkit: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing to @axa-fr/react-toolkit

**Table of Contents**

- [Prerequisite](#prerequisite)
- [How to make and test a change in my context](#how-to-make-and-test-a-change-in-my-context)
- [How to work on a component](#how-to-work-on-a-component)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

## Prerequisite

You must use a version of Node.js respecting the following rule `>=10.14.2` or `12.x` or `>=14`.

## How to make and test a change in my context

Consider you have a project using toolkit and want to make a change (bugfix, stylefix, new feature) and see it working on your consuming project.

### 1. Retrieve and prepare toolkit

> - Fork toolkit (considering you want to submit your changes 👍) following [contributing guide](#installation)

Author: Je voulais trouver un moyen de dire, la cible c'est de soumettre une proposition en fin d'exercice mais le sujet c'est quand même de 'faire fonctionner' en priorité. Je suis preneur de suggestions de présentation :-)

> - Fork toolkit (considering you want to submit your changes 👍) following [contributing guide](#installation)

Reviewer: Enlever la partie redondante (22 à 24)

- `cd react-toolkit`
- `npm i`

### 2. Create or prepare your project

- [Option] Step for new/empty project => `npx create-react-app react-toolik-consumer`
- `cd <consumer_project>`
- `npm install -D sass`
- `npm start`

👉 Your project should start without any errors

### 3. Iterate

> Considering you want to make changes on button

- `npm i -P <local_toolkit_src_folder>/packages/button` [doc npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/commands/npm-install)
- Add component _Button_ in your project

  ````
  import Button from "@axa-fr/react-toolkit-button";
  import "@axa-fr/react-toolkit-button/dist/button.scss";

      ...

      <Button>Text Consumer</Button>
      ```
  ````

👉 You should see the react-toolkit button in your project (with correct style)

- Editing component **behavior**

  - Edit file `<local_toolkit_src_folder>\packages\button\src\Button.tsx`

  ```
  const ButtonRaw: React.SFC<ButtonCoreComponentProps> = (props) => {
    const buttonProps: ButtonCoreComponentProps = omitProperties(props);
    return <button {...buttonProps}>Overrided in Toolkit</button>;
  };
  ```

  - ❗ Re-Build behavior

    - Go to _component_ (/packages/button) `package.json`

>     - run `npm run prepare` (you can click on arrow in vscode)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - run `npm run prepare` (you can right-click on command & choose 'Run script' in vscode)
```

**Table of Contents**

- [Prerequisite](#prerequisite)
- [How to make and test a change in my context](#how-to-make-and-test-a-change-in-my-context)
- [How to work on a component](#how-to-work-on-a-component)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

## Prerequisite

You must use a version of Node.js respecting the following rule `>=10.14.2` or `12.x` or `>=14`.

## How to make and test a change in my context

Consider you have a project using toolkit and want to make a change (bugfix, stylefix, new feature) and see it working on your consuming project.

### 1. Retrieve and prepare toolkit

- Fork toolkit (considering you want to submit your changes 👍) following [contributing guide](#installation)
- `git clone https://github.com/{your_github_account}/react-toolkit.git`
- `cd react-toolkit`
- `npm i`

### 2. Create or prepare your project

- [Option] Step for new/empty project => `npx create-react-app react-toolkit-consumer`
- `cd react-toolkit-consumer`
- `npm install -D sass` (optional - only if you want to use sass file from toolkit)
- `npm start`

👉 Your project should start without any errors

### 3. Iterate

> > Considering you want to make changes on button

Reviewer 2: C'est voulu le chevron à ce niveau de la doc ?

Author: Je sais pas ça rendait bien en preview :-)

Reviewer: Pour de la cohérence, mettre tous les descriptifs de paragraphe au même format

- `npm i -P <local_toolkit_src_folder>/packages/button` 

> > More info about local install command [doc npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/commands/npm-install)

Reviewer 3: pensez-vous qu'il serait utile d'ajouter dans les pré-requis, la version de npm (v7 en l'occurence) ?

Author: Je pense pas que la version joue ? Tu parles d'un prérequis générale au toolkit ou à la démarche que je soumet ?

Reviewer 3: prérequis général, au même titre que la version de Node mais ce n'est peut-être pas utile

> - Add a component file _MyProjectButton.js_ into your project with following content :

Reviewer 2: C'est possible de remplacer par `MyProjectButton.ts` histoire de rester dans l'air du temps ?! 😉

  ````
  import Button from "@axa-fr/react-toolkit-button";
  import "@axa-fr/react-toolkit-button/dist/button.scss";

      ...

      <Button>Text Consumer</Button>

>       ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      ...
```

  ````

👉 You should see the react-toolkit button in your project (with correct style)

- Editing component **behavior** into toolkit

  - Edit file `<local_toolkit_src_folder>\packages\button\src\Button.tsx`

  ```
  const ButtonRaw: React.SFC<ButtonCoreComponentProps> = (props) => {
    const buttonProps: ButtonCoreComponentProps = omitProperties(props);
    return <button {...buttonProps}>Overrided in Toolkit</button>;
  };
  ```

  - ❗ Re-Build behavior

    - Go to _component_ (/packages/button) `package.json`
    - run `npm run prepare` (you can right-click on command & choose 'Run script' in vscode)

  - Refresh your running site

👉 You should see the text _Overrided in Toolkit_ in your button (with correct style)

- Editing component **style**

  - Edit file `<local_toolkit_src_folder>\packages\button\src\button.scss`

  ```
  .af-btn {
    font-family: $font-family-base;
    background-color: red;
  }
  ```

  - ❗ Re-Build style

    - Go to _root_ `package.json`
    - run `npm run style` (you can click on arrow in vscode)

  - Refresh your running site

👉 You should see the text _Overrided in Toolkit_ in **red** (with correct style)

> 

Reviewer 2: Que penses tu de rajouter une section afin d'indiquer comment mettre à jour le storyshot d'un composant ?

Author: L'idée de cette partie c'était 'Je me lance et je teste un truc dans mon projet' néanmoins je voulais aussi faire une partie 'Préparer ma contribution' avec notamment la partie Test/Storybook. Je pensais me rattacher sur un bout de doc quelque part (ici ou ailleurs)
